.TH beamerpresenter.conf 5 "25 February 2020"
.
.SH NAME
beamerpresenter.conf \- configuration file for BeamerPresenter
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.B BeamerPresenter
is a Qt5-based presentation viewer which shows a presentation and notes for the speaker in two different windows.
It can be configured using a file beamerpresenter.conf in
.IR <dir>/beamerpresenter.conf " or " <dir>/beamerpresenter/beamerpresenter.conf
.RI "where " <dir> " is " $HOME/.config " or any directory listed in " $XDG_CONFIG_DIRS .
The configuration defines key bindings, colors, buttons and default options for command line arguments.
.
.
.
.SH FORMAT
.
Values are assigned to keys using the syntax
.IR key = value
where each key value pair needs an own line.
Instead of a single value some options support lists of values:
.IR key = value1 , value2 , value3 .
.RI "Some options can be set (activated) by just adding " key " to the config file without any value."
Lines can be commented out using #. Commenting out parts of a line is not possible.

In some cases the usual syntax is extended to groups of keys, reading
.IR group / key = value .
Special values include colors which can be specified as color names known to Qt or in the hexadecimal formats #rrggbb or #aarrggbb.
.RI "For some values different formulations are allowed (e.g. writing " page " or " slide " is equivalent)."

An example configuration, which can be used as a template for setting up your own preferences, can be found at
.UR https://github.com/stiglers-eponym/BeamerPresenter
or in /etc/beamerpresenter/beamerpresenter.conf (depending on your installation).
.
.
.
.SH DEFAULT VALUES FOR COMMAND LINE ARGUMENTS
.
For each command line argument of the form
.BI \-\- argument
you can define a default value in beamerpresenter.conf using the syntax
.IR argument = value .
Possible arguments and their default values are:
.
.TP
.BR autoplay =false
true, false or number: Start video and audio content when entering a slide. A number is interpreted as a delay in seconds, after which multimedia content is started.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-a " or " \-\-autoplay .
.
.TP
.BR autoplay-emb =false
true, false or number: Start embedded applications when entering a slide. A number is interpreted as a delay in seconds, after which embedded applications are started.
Not available if embedded applications were disabled at compile time.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-A " or " \-\-autoplay-emb .
.
.TP
.BR min-delay =40
Set the minimum time per frame in milliseconds. This is useful when using \\animation in LaTeX beamer.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-m " or " \-\-min-delay .
.
.TP
.BR page-part =none
Set half of the page to be the presentation, the other half to be the notes. Values are "l" or "r" for presentation on the left or right half of the page, respectively. If the presentation was created with "\\setbeameroption{show notes on second screen=right}", you should use
.B \-\-page-part 
.IR right .
This sets the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-p " or " \-\-page-part .
.
.TP
.B timer
.IR time :
.RI "Set timer to " "time" ". Possible formats are ""[m]m"", ""[m]m:ss"" and ""h:mm:ss""."
This sets the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-t " or " \-\-timer .
.
.TP
.B embed
List of files which are marked for embedding if an execution link points to them. Multiple files should be separated only by a comma (not space!).
This option is not available if embedded applications were disabled at compile time.
This sets the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-e " or " \-\-embed .
.
.TP
.BR blinds =8
.IR integer :
Set the number of blinds used in the blinds slide transition.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-b " or " \-\-blinds .
.
.TP
.BR glitter-pixel =30
Set the size (length) of glitter pixel in glitter slide transition.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-g " or " \-\-glitter-pixel .
.
.TP
.BR glitter-steps =167
Set number of independent glitter pixels in glitter slide transition. This number times the glitter pixel size divided by the screen width should not be approximately an integer or a fraction like 1/2, 1/3, 3/2, ...
Best results are obtained for prime numbers of order 1000 (depending on pixel size and the screen resolution). Larger numbers lead to more randomness, but require more computational power.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-G " or " \-\-glitter-steps .
.
.TP
.B no-transitions
.RB "disable all slide transitions. This sets the option " \-\-no-transitions " by default.
.
.TP
.B pid2wid
.IR path :
Path to a program, which takes a process ID as an argument and returns the window ID of the corresponding window. This can be an executable shell script using
.BR wmctrl (1)
with the command

.B echo
.IR "$(( " "16#" "$("
.BR wmctrl " -lp | " sed " -n
.RI "\[dq]s/^0x\e([0-9a-f]\e+\e) \e+[0-9]\e+ \e+" $1 " .*$/\e1/p\[dq] " ") ))"

This option is not available if embedded applications were disabled at compile time.
This sets the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-w " or " \-\-pid2wid .
.
.TP
.B urlsplit
.IR string :
Use this character (it may also be a sequence) to split links into a link path and a list of arguments. Using PDFs with such links can be convenient, but will make the links work only in this application. This does not follow the PDF standards. Possible arguments are
.BR embed " (for executables), " autoplay " (for videos and sounds) and " loop " (for videos and sounds)."
This option sets the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-u " or " \-\-urlsplit .
.
.TP
.BR sidebar-width =0.2
Minimum width of the sidebar (on the right of the control screen) relative to the window width. This should be a floating point number between 0 and 1.
.
.TP
.BR scrollstep =200
.IR integer :
Touch pads quantify scroll events as numbers of pixels. This option sets the number of pixels, which are interpreted as the step between two pages. A larger number makes the scrolling slower.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-s " or " \-\-scrollstep .
.
.TP
.BR color-frames =25
Minimum number of frames shown between each timer step for a smooth transition.
The actual frame rate can be higher, since the number of frames per second is preferably an integer. The time between two frames is always at least 40ms.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-\-color-frames .
.
.TP
.BR force-touchpad =false
treat all scrolling signals as touch pads.
.RB "This sets the command line argument " \-\-force-touchpad " by default."
.
.TP
.B icon-path
.IR directory :
Set the path used to search for icons, e.g. /usr/share/icons/default.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-\-icon-path .
.
.TP
.BR cache =-1
.IR integer :
Set the maximum number of slides, which are rendered to images and stored in a compressed cache. A negative number is treated as infinity.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-c " or " \-\-cache .
.RB "Independent of this configuration the maximum size of cache can be specified approximately using the option " memory .
.
.TP
.BR memory =100
.IR integer :
Set the maximum cache size in MiB. A negative number is treated as infinity. The real memory usage can be slightly larger than this limit, because slides are rendered to cache without any knowledge about their size in memory beforehand.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-M " or " \-\-memory .
.
.TP
.BR video-cache =true
.IR bool :
If set to true, videos will be loaded to cache when reaching the slide before the one containing the video.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-V " or " \-\-video-cache .
.
.TP
.BR toc-depth =2
.IR integer :
.RB "Number of levels in the table of contents, which will be shown on the control screen with the default shortcut " t ". Possible values range from 1 and 4. An additional level will be shown as a popup menu if necessary."
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-l " or " \-\-toc-depth .
.
.TP
.BR columns =5
.IR integer :
Set the number of columns of slides, which will be shown in the overview mode on the control screen.
This overwrites the default value for the command line argument
.BR \-o " or " \-\-columns .
.
.TP
.B renderer
.IR string :
Command for calling an external PDF renderer which can be used instead of the internal poppler renderer.
The command should call a renderer, which renders one page of a PDF file to a png image of fixed size, such that it can be shown in a window with given width and height and writes the image to the standard output.
The command should contain the tokens "%file" for the PDF file name, "%page" for the page number, "%width" for the image width in pixels and "%height" for the height in pixels.
Note that if the command fails this will not necessarily be handled correctly or lead to a warning.

An example for a command using
.BR "mutool draw " "from the " MuPDF " project is"
.RB \[dq] "mutool draw"
.IR -F "png " -w "%width " -h "%height " -o "- %file %page\[dq]."

This will set the default value of the command line argument
.BR \-r " or " \-\-renderer " to \[dq]custom\[dq].
If this option is set, the internal renderer can be used with the command line argument
.RB \[dq] \-r " poppler\[dq]."
.
.TP
.B no-notes
Show only the presentation and no notes. This will only hide the notes window and does not significantly improve the performance or reduce the required memory.
.
.TP
.B log
.IR bool :
If set to true (or to an empty string), print times of slide changes to standard output.
This always activates the command line argument
.BR \-x " or " \-\-log .
.
.TP
.BR eraser-size =10
.IR integer :
Radius of the eraser in pixels, overwriting the default value for the command line argument
.B \-\-eraser-size .
.
.
.
.SS COLORS
.
.RI "Colors can be specified as name known to Qt5, an RGB value or an ARGB value in hexadecimal format, e.g. as " red ", " #ff0000 " or " #ffff0000 .
In the configuration you can define the following colors.
.TP
.BR "presentation color" "=black"
background color of the presentation window
.
.TP
.BR "notes background color" "=gray"
background color of the control screen
.
.TP
.BR "notes text color" "=black"
text color of the control screen
.
.TP
.BI "timer/" time = color
.
The timer can change its color depending on the time relative to your target presentation time. In this form you can specify colors for specific times relative to the timeout. The color of the timer will be changed linearly between two such time points.
.RI "Here " time " is the time interval (timeout - now) in seconds, e.g. " time=-60 " is one minute before you reach the timeout.
.
.
.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.
Keyboard shortcuts can be associated with a key using the following syntax:

.BI "keys/" "modifiers + key " = " action1" , " action2" ", ..."

Key names and modifiers are passed to QKeySequence, which converts them to key codes.
.RI "Examples of valid key codes are " previous ", " shift+s ", and " ctrl+shift+x .

Multiple actions can be passed to a single key code and should be separated by a comma. The actions are case insensitive.
.RI "The " actions " can be key actions as listed below or define draw tools."
An action defining a draw tool has the form
.RI \[dq] "<tool> [color] [size]" \[dq]
or
.RI \[dq] "<tool> " color=" <color> " size=" <size> \[dq].
.RI "Here " <color> " is a color name known to Qt and " <size> " is a floating point number. For the tool " Magnifier " an additional option " magnification " may be given to define the magnification factor as a floating point value."
.
.
.SS Key actions
.
.TP
.B update cache
Update cached slides if necessary.
.
.TP
.BR "start embedded current slide" ", " "start embedded applications current page" ", ..."
Start all embedded applications on the currently shown slide.
Not available if embedded applications were disabled at compile time.
.
.TP
.BR "start all embedded" " or " "start all embedded applications"
Start all embedded applications on all slides.
Not available if embedded applications were disabled at compile time.
.
.TP
.BR "close embedded current slide" ", " "close embedded applications current page" ", ..."
Try to terminate all embedded applications on the current slide.
Not available if embedded applications were disabled at compile time.
.
.TP
.BR "close all embedded " or " close all embedded applications"
Try to terminate all embedded applications on all slides.
Not available if embedded applications were disabled at compile time.
.
.TP
.BR "go to" , " go to page" " or " "go to slide"
Go to page (set focus to page number edit). This will make the control screen the active window.
.
.TP
.BR "play pause multimedia " or " toggle multimedia"
Play or pause all multimedia content on the current slide.
.RB Analogous: " play multimedia " and " pause multimedia" .
.
.TP
.BR "mute" , " unmute" , " toggle mute" , " mute presentation" , " mute notes" ", ..."
Mute or unmute presentation, notes, or both.
.
.TP
.B toggle cursor
Toggle cursor visibility on the presentation screen.
.RB Analogous: " show cursor " and " hide cursor" .
.
.TP
.B toggle timer
Pause or continue timer.
.RB Analogous: " continue timer " and " pause timer" .
.
.TP
.B reset timer
Set elapsed time to 0.
.
.TP
.B quit
Quit.
.
.TP
.B toggle overview
Show or hide overview of all slides on the control screen.
.RB Analogous: " show overview" .
.
.TP
.B toggle TOC
Show table of contents on the control screen.
.RB Analogous: " show TOC" .
.
.TP
.B hide overlays
Hide TOC and overview to show notes or draw slide again.
.
.TP
.B reload
Check if the PDF files have changed and reload them if necessary.
.
.TP
.B update
Update layout, reload page and start or continue timer.
.
.TP
.B previous
Go to previous slide and start or continue timer.
.
.TP
.B next
Go to next slide and start or continue timer.
.
.TP
.B previous current screen
Show the previous slide only on the currently active screen.
.
.TP
.B next current screen
Show the next slide only on the currently active screen.
.
.TP
.B previous skipping overlays
Go to the previous slide until the page label changes. In beamer presentations: Go to the last overlay of the previous slide.
.
.TP
.B next skipping overlays
Go to the next slide until the page label changes. In beamer presentations: Go to the first overlay of the next slide.
.
.TP
.B previous no transition
Go to previous slide without a slide transition and start or continue timer.
.
.TP
.B next no transition
Go to next slide without a slide transition and start or continue timer.
.
.TP
.B full screen
Toggle full screen of the active window.
.
.TP
.B sync from control screen
Set page number of the presentation to the page number on the control screen and start or continue timer.
.
.TP
.B sync from presentation screen
Set page number of the control screen to the page number of the presentation. When browsing your notes, this will bring you back to the current slide.
.
.TP
.B toggle draw mode
Toggle drawing mode: draw in the presentation slide on the control screen. In this mode all tools are synchronized between presentation screen and control screen.
.RB Analogous: "enter draw mode" = "draw mode " and "end draw mode" = "hide draw slide" .
.
.TP
.B clear annotations
Delete all drawings on the current page.
.
.TP
.B undo drawing
Undo the last drawing (with pen or highlighter). Erasing can not be undone! Technically this just removes the last path.
.
.TP
.B redo drawing
Restore a previously undone path.
.
.TP
.BR "save " or " save drawings"
Save drawings to a compressed XML file. This opens a file dialog in which you can specify an output file path.
The XML file is compressed using Qt's qCompress function. It can be uncompressed using zlib after removing the first four bytes, e.g. by using the command
.RI "\[dq]tail -c+5 " file.bp " | zlib-flate -uncompress\[dq]."
Note that saving and loading drawings is experimental and files may not be readable for later versions of BeamerPresenter!
.
.TP
.BR "save uncompressed " or " save drawings uncompressed"
Save drawings to an uncompressed XML file. This opens a file dialog in which you can specify an output file path.
The XML file's root node contains nodes for each page with an own page label which contains annotations.
The page nodes then contain one element for each stroke.
.RI "These stokes have the properties " tool ", " color ", and " width " and contain as text a list of coordinates forming the stroke. The coordinates are given as alternating x and y floating point values in points (inch/72)."
Note that saving and loading drawings is experimental and files may not be readable for later versions of BeamerPresenter!
.
.TP
.BR "save xournal " or " save drawings xournal"
Save drawings in an uncompressed XML file, which should be readable for Xournal(++). Note that this only aims at providing a compatibility layer and does not produce the same files as Xournal(++).
.
.TP
.BR "save legacy " or " save drawings legacy"
Save drawings to a legacy binary file. This opens a file dialog in which you can specify an output file path.
.RB "Note that this file format will be " "unreadable for later versions of BeamerPresenter!"
.
.TP
.B load drawings
Load drawings from file. This opens a file dialog in which you can select a file which was created using BeamerPresenter.
With this you can load compressed and uncompressed BeamerPresenter XML files as well as legacy binary files. However, legacy binary files will not be supported in later versions of BeamerPresenter.
You can also open uncompressed Xournal or Xournal++ files. These files can be generated from normal (compressed) Xournal(++) files using gunzip.
.
.TP
.B hand tool
Set the current draw tool or highlight tool to "no tool".
.
.
.SS Draw tools
.
.TP
.BI pen " [color] [size]"
Draw in the presentation with a pen of given color (given as a color name known to Qt, #rrggbb or #aarrggbb). The default color is black. Size is the stroke width.
.
.TP
.BI highlighter " [color] [size]"
Draw in the presentation with a highlighter. The default color is #c0ffff00 (yellow). Size is the stroke width.
.
.TP
.B eraser [size]
Erase strokes of pens and of the highlighter. Size is the radius of the disk around the cursor at which strokes (or more precisely nodes of strokes) will be deleted.
.
.TP
.BI pointer " [color] [size]"
Highlight a point on the slide with a pointer. The default color is #c0ff0000 (red). Size is the diameter of the pointer.
.
.TP
.BI torch " [color] [size]"
Emphasize a region of the current slide with a torch. The rest of the presentation is colored with <color>. Use the #aarrggbb format to specify an alpha channel. Size is the radius of the highlighted disk.
.
.TP
.BI magnifier " [color] [size] [magnification]"
Enlarge a region of the current slide with a magnifier by the magnification factor. Size is the radius of the magnifier in pixels.
.
.
.
.SS BUTTONS
.
On the control screen there are some buttons, which can be used to select different drawing tools, to switch between drawing and notes mode, and for other useful actions.
The buttons can be customized using a similar syntax as the key bindings:

.BI "tools/" "xy " = " action1" , " action2" ", ..."

.RI "Here " x " and " y " are integers between 0 and 9 (or between 0 and f in hexadecimal format) indicating row and column of the button. The actions use the same syntax as for key bindings."
.
.
.
.SH BUGS
.
Bugs can be reported at the
.UR https://github.com/stiglers-eponym/BeamerPresenter/issues
issue tracker
.UE .
