# BeamerPresenter
This project aims at creating a simple PDF viewer, which shows one PDF file as a
presentation in full screen mode and another PDF file with notes for the slides
on a second screen.

BeamerPresenter is specifically aimed at presentations generated by LaTeX beamer.
Support for presentations generated with the beamer option
`show notes on second screen` is also present, but the focus of this program
lies on showing two independent PDFs, of which one contains the presentation and
one contains the notes.

For quick response during the presentation, all pages are rendered to a compressed
cache. This can be done using either the internal or an external renderer.


## Build
To build and use this project you need to have the Qt5 multimedia module and the
poppler Qt5 bindings installed.

Download an compile this project:
```sh
git clone https://github.com/stiglers-eponym/BeamerPresenter.git
cd BeamerPresenter
qmake && make
```


## Usage
```sh
beamerpresenter <presentation.pdf> [<notes.pdf>]
```
For more options and usage possibilities use `beamerpresenter --help` the man page.


## Features
An extended list of features can be found in the manual (`beamerpresenter.1`).
*	Control window with a notes slide, previews of the current and next
	presentation slide, a timer, a clock and the current slide number.
*	Cache: All slides are rendered to a compressed cache.
	The total cache size can be limited.
*	Videos and Sounds: You can add videos and audio files to your presentation.
	Videos continue playing on different overlays, if the same video should be
	shown these overlays. Overlays are defined as slides with the same page number.
*	Embed Applications: You can show windows created by external applications in
	a presentation. This can be used to show interactive plots.
	Details can be found in the manual (`beamerpresenter.1`).
*	Simple navigation through links, scrolling, a table of contents on the
	control screen and shortcuts for skipping overlays.


## Settings
Settings can be placed in a file `beamerpresenter.conf` (on platforms other than
GNU/Linux: `beamerpresenter.ini`). An example configuration file is provided.
The configuration can only be edited directly with a text editor.

This program is only tested on a GNU/Linux system. Using configuration files might
lead to platform specific problems.


## Patching LaTeX beamer
The typical usage case requires notes with the same page number as the
presentation. Generating such notes in LaTeX beamer can be achieved by applying
the following patch:

```tex
\setbeameroption{show only notes}
\makeatletter
  %
  % Overwrite beamer's definition of \beamer@framenotesend, such that for each
  % page generated in the presentation, one page will be generated in the notes.
  %
  \def\beamer@framenotesend
  {% at end of slide
    \global\setbox\beamer@frameboxcopy
      =\hbox{\leaders\copy\beamer@framebox\hskip\wd\beamer@framebox}
    \beamer@setupnote%
    \ifbeamer@notesnormals%
    \else%
      \global\setbox\beamer@framebox=\box\voidb@x%
    \fi%
  }
\makeatother
```

Alternatively you can use beamer's option to combine presentation and notes:
```tex
\usepackage{pgfpages}
\setbeameroption{show notes on second screen=right}
```
In both cases links on the notes pages might require some patches in LaTeX.

Even without notes, showing two different PDF documents can be useful. For
example when the presentation has an aspect ratio of 16:9, the notes page can
be used to show the same presentation with an aspect ratio of 4:3.
