.TH beamerpresenter-ui 1 "2021-01-27" 0.2.0
.
.SH NAME
beamerpresenter-ui \- user interface of BeamerPresenter
.
.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.
The GUI configuration file is JSON-formatted, containing a list of widgets. These widgets function as root widgets forming own windows. Each widget is a JSON dictionary. There are widgets providing their own content and layout widgets which do not provide own contents, but have contain a list of \[dq]children\[dq], which are widgets again.
.
Arguments shared by all widgets:
.TP
.BI "type" " name"
widget type defined in section WIDGETS
.TP
.BI "keys " "keyboard shortcut"
Key combination to set focus to this widget.
.TP
.BI "title " "text"
title of the widget, visible only if the widget is shown in a tabbed widget.
.TP
.BI "color " "color name / #RRGGBB / #AARRGGBB"
background color, color name known to Qt.
.
.
.SH WIDGETS
.
.TP
.B clock
digital clock, takes no options.
.
.TP
.B notes
markdown formatted editable notes.
Keyboard actions while notes widget has focus: save notes with Ctrl+S, save under new file name with Ctrl+Shift+S, load from file with Ctrl+O.
.RS
.PP
Arguments:
.TP
.BI "file " "path"
path to xml-file to read notes from.
.TP
.BI "zoom " "integer"
zoom step for the widget (defined by QTextEdit).
.RE
.
.TP
.B settings
change settings and get help. Most of this module is not implemented yet.
.
.TP
.B slide
slide of a presentation. This is the main widget shown to the audience and on the speaker's screen.
.RS
.PP
Arguments:
.TP
.BI "file " "path"
pdf file shown in the presentation or alias name. Aliases such as "presentation" or "notes" will be filled with command line arguments or by asking in a file open dialog.
.TP
.BI "shift " "integer"
Shift slide number relative to the main presentation slide. E.g. shift=1 creates a preview of the next slide, which can be shown in the speaker's view.
.TP
.BI "page part " "left/right"
side of the page to be shown if the pages are split into a left and a right side showing presentation and notes on the same page.
.TP
.BI "transitions " "true/false"
enable/disable slide transitions (not implemented yet!)
.TP
.BI "multimedia " "true/false"
enable/disable multimedia (not implemented yet!)
.TP
.BI "cache hash " "integer"
integer to identify slide widgets with the same geometry, which should use the same cached slides. Set the same \[dq]cache hash\[dq] for multiple slides to make them use the same cache.
.TP
.BI "threads " "integer"
number of threads used to pre-render pages in cache. Disable pre-rendering by setting this to zero.
.TP
.BI "overlays " "first/last/none"
show only first/last page of each group of pages with the same page label.
.RE
.
.TP
.B slide label
Show label of current slide and allow navigation by editing the slide label.
.
.TP
.B slide number
Show number of current slide and allow navigation by editing this number.
.
.TP
.B thumbnails
thumbnail overview of all slides.
.PP
.RS
Arguments:
.TP
.BI "overlays " "skip"
Set this option to \[dq]skip\[dq] to show only one preview slide for each group of pages with the same page label.
.TP
.BI "columns " "integer"
number of columns in which the thumbnail slides are arranged.
.RE
.
.TP
.B timer
timer for the presentation.
.
.TP
.B toc
outline / table of contents, shows document outline tree.
.
.TP
.B tool selector
Grid layout of push buttons. Contains mandatory argument
.B buttons
which must be an array of arrays of buttons (matrix defining the arrangement of the buttons).
Each button can either be a string representing an action, or a JSON dictionary representing a tool, or an array of multiple strings representing actions.
.RS
.PP
Valid action strings:
.TP
.B previous
navigate to previous page
.TP
.B next
navigate to next page
.TP
.B first
navigate to first page
.TP
.B last
navigate to last page
.TP
.B update
update view (technically navigates to current page)
.TP
.B next skipping overlay
navigate to next page which has a different page label than current page
.TP
.B previous skipping overlays
navigate to previous page which has a different page label than current page
.TP
.B reload
reload the presentation file (if it has been modified) (this function might be unstable!)
.TP
.B undo
undo last drawing action on current page
.TP
.B undo left
undo last drawing action on left part of current page, assuming that the page is split into a left and right half which represent presentation and notes, respectively
.TP
.B undo right
undo last drawing action on right part of current page, assuming that the page is split into a left and right half which represent presentation and notes, respectively
.TP
.B redo
redo last drawing action on current page
.TP
.B redo left
redo last drawing action on left part of current page, assuming that the page is split into a left and right half which represent presentation and notes, respectively
.TP
.B redo right
redo last drawing action on right part of current page, assuming that the page is split into a left and right half which represent presentation and notes, respectively
.TP
.B clear
clear all drawings on the current page.
.TP
.B clear left
clear all drawings on the left part of current page, assuming that the page is split into a left and right half which represent presentation and notes, respectively
.TP
.B clear right
clear all drawings on the right part of current page, assuming that the page is split into a left and right half which represent presentation and notes, respectively
.TP
.B start timer
start the timer in timer widget.
.TP
.B stop timer
stop the timer in timer widget.
.TP
.B reset timer
reset the timer (passed time) in timer widget.
.TP
.B quit
close BeamerPresenter.
.PP
Options in the dictionary for tools (all lengths are given in points (1/72 inch) in PDF):
.TP
.B tool
mandatory: pen, highlighter, eraser, pointer, magnifier, torch, text (experimental!) or none
.TP
.B color
available for most tools: color name known to Qt or #RRGGBB or #AARRGGBB
.TP
.B width
only draw tools (pen, highlighter, eraser, fixed width pen): stroke width (positive number).
.TP
.B size
only pointing tools (pointer, torch, highlighter): radius of tool (positive number).
.TP
.B scale
only magnifier: magnification factor (number between 0.1 and 5).
.TP
.B font
only text: anything that Qt can interpret as font name.
.TP
.B font size
only text: font size (positive number).
.PP
It is possible to select a different tool for a button while BeamerPresenter is running by clicking the button while pressing the ctrl key. But note that this changes the tool only temporarily and this modification will not be saved.
.RE

.SS Layouts
.
.TP
.B horizontal
horizontally arranged child widgets. The relative size of the widgets is determined by their preferred aspect ratios to ensure maximal usage of the screen by slide widgets.
.
.TP
.B vertical
vertically arranged child widgets, see horizontal.
.
.TP
.B stacked
stacked child widgets, shown in the same place. The currently visible widget can only be selected by keyboard shortcuts defined using the \[dq]keys\[dq] argument of the subwidgets.
.
.TP
.B tabbed
similar to stacked widget, but shows the child widgets as tabs, which can be selected using the cursor.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.BR beamerpresenter (1)
.BR beamerpresenter.conf (5),
